wetlabtools/chirascan/readme.md, before:

# Chirascan CD data analysis
This module can import and process data from CD experiments conducted on chirascan instruments. The data must have been converted to csv. The module contains a central class cd_experiment, which should be able to process (almost) any data format recorded on chirascan instruments. Currently it does not support thermal melts with final measurements. It supports full spectrum thermal melts, single wavelength thermal melts. Thermal ramps can also contain recordings of the return ramp.

## Example usage
You can import the data manually using the central cd_experiment class and process / plot the data on your own. The data will be formatted into long format allowing for easy plotting.
```
cd = wetlabtools.chirascan.cd_experiment(result_file=cd_data)
cd.subtract_blank(blank_data)
data = cd.get_data()
```

When you provide the sample information, the script can convert the units from mdeg (measured by the instrument) into MRE. The protein concentration must be provided in µM and the pathlenght must be provided in mm:
```python
import wetlabtools

sample_dict = {
    'Cell1': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_1',
        'conc': 10,                     # µM
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1                 # mm
    },
    'Cell2': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_2',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell3': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_3',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell4': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_4',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell5': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_5',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell6': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_6',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    }
}

cd = wetlabtools.chirascan.cd_experiment(result_file=cd_data, sample_data=sample_dict)
cd.subtract_blank(blank_data)
cd.convert(unit='mre')
data = cd.get_data()
```
Note that user provided sample data will overwrite the data read from the data file!

## Layouts
Layouts take specific data inputs and generate figures from these. 
### Single wavelength melt with pre- and post-melt full spectra
This layout plots the full spectra before and after a melt on the left and plots the melting curve on the right. It will generate one figure for each cell and convert the cd signal to MRE.
```python
premelt_file = '/path/to/pre_melt_spectra.csv'
postmelt_file = '/path/to/post_melt_spectra.csv'
melt_file = '/path/to/single_wavelength_melt.csv'
blank_file = '/path/to/buffer.csv'

wetlabtools.chirascan.layouts.single_wvl_melt(
    premelt_file=premelt_file, 
    postmelt_file=postmelt_file, 
    melt_file=melt_file, 
    blank_file=blank_file, 
    sample_data=sample_dict, 
    wvl_lim=(200,260), 
    tmp_lim=(20,90), 
    save_png=True, 
    save_svg=True
)
```

### Temperature melts from full spectra
There is a layout to plot a similar figure from temperature melts with full spectra being recorded at each temperature:

```python
melt_file = '/path/to/cd_melt_spectra.csv'
blank_file = '/path/to/buffer.csv'

wetlabtools.chirascan.layouts.full_spectrum_melt(
    melt_file=melt_file, 
    blank_file=blank_file, 
    sample_data=sample_dict, 
    wvl_lim=(200,260), 
    tmp_lim=(20,90), 
    melt_wavelength=222,
    legend='continuos',
    save_png=True, 
    save_svg=False
)
```
Note that since full spectra were recorded at each temperature, you can specify the wavelength to plot in the melting curve. Additionally you can choose the style of the legend of the left plot (discrete, continuos, False for no legend).

Commit message:

added option to control number of spectra in full spectra temperature melts

wetlabtools/chirascan/readme.md, after:

# Chirascan CD data analysis
This module can import and process data from CD experiments conducted on chirascan instruments. The data must have been converted to csv. The module contains a central class cd_experiment, which should be able to process (almost) any data format recorded on chirascan instruments. Currently it does not support thermal melts with final measurements. It supports full spectrum thermal melts, single wavelength thermal melts. Thermal ramps can also contain recordings of the return ramp.

You can find examples in this [notebook](../../examples/cd_examples.ipynb).

## Example usage
You can import the data manually using the central cd_experiment class and process / plot the data on your own. The data will be formatted into long format allowing for easy plotting.
```
cd = wetlabtools.chirascan.cd_experiment(result_file=cd_data)
cd.subtract_blank(blank_data)
data = cd.get_data()
```

When you provide the sample information, the script can convert the units from mdeg (measured by the instrument) into MRE. The protein concentration must be provided in µM and the pathlenght must be provided in mm:
```python
import wetlabtools

sample_dict = {
    'Cell1': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_1',
        'conc': 10,                     # µM
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1                 # mm
    },
    'Cell2': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_2',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell3': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_3',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell4': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_4',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 116,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell5': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_5',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    },
    'Cell6': {
        'sample_id': 'sample_6',
        'conc': 10,
        'n_pep': 113,
        'pathlength': 1
    }
}

cd = wetlabtools.chirascan.cd_experiment(result_file=cd_data, sample_data=sample_dict)
cd.subtract_blank(blank_data)
cd.convert(unit='mre')
data = cd.get_data()
```
Note that user provided sample data will overwrite the data read from the data file!

## Layouts
Layouts take specific data inputs and generate figures from these. 
### Single wavelength melt with pre- and post-melt full spectra
This layout plots the full spectra before and after a melt on the left and plots the melting curve on the right. It will generate one figure for each cell and convert the cd signal to MRE.
```python
premelt_file = '/path/to/pre_melt_spectra.csv'
postmelt_file = '/path/to/post_melt_spectra.csv'
melt_file = '/path/to/single_wavelength_melt.csv'
blank_file = '/path/to/buffer.csv'

wetlabtools.chirascan.layouts.single_wvl_melt(
    premelt_file=premelt_file, 
    postmelt_file=postmelt_file, 
    melt_file=melt_file, 
    blank_file=blank_file, 
    sample_data=sample_dict, 
    wvl_lim=(200,260), 
    tmp_lim=(20,90), 
    save_png=True, 
    save_svg=True
)
```

### Temperature melts from full spectra
There is a layout to plot a similar figure from temperature melts with full spectra being recorded at each temperature:

```python
melt_file = '/path/to/cd_melt_spectra.csv'
blank_file = '/path/to/buffer.csv'

wetlabtools.chirascan.layouts.full_spectrum_melt(
    melt_file=melt_file, 
    blank_file=blank_file, 
    sample_data=sample_dict, 
    wvl_lim=(200,260), 
    tmp_lim=(20,90), 
    melt_wavelength=222,
    legend='continuos',
    n_spectra=5,
    save_png=True, 
    save_svg=False
)
```
Note that since full spectra were recorded at each temperature, you can specify the wavelength to plot in the melting curve. Additionally you can choose the style of the legend of the left plot (discrete, continuos, False for no legend). For the left plot showing the full spectra you can choose the number of spectra being plotted (this will no affect the melting curve on the right) by adjusting ```n_spectra```. Setting ```n_spectra = 2``` will plot only the spectrum of the first and last temperature of your melt.
